So now that we send get requests, let's go back to httpbin.org and let's send a post request.
We can do this by sending a post request to /post at the end and it will basically mirror back
the data we send to it.
So for that, I will copy that fetch call here and I'll target /post at the end.
Now by default, we still send a get request though, it of course doesn't
infer the kind of HTTP request it should send by to URL, that would be super bad because maybe
we might just want to get a single post here,
so that post doesn't indicate that we send a post request.
Instead we can configure this request by passing a second argument to the fetch method and passing a
Javascript object as an argument.
Now here, we can set up this fetch request,
we can specify some options for the requests.
Now there are many options you can pass here and a detailed article up about fetch in case you want to
dive deeper
can also be found at the end of this module,
this course of course is not just about fetch. Here however are the core things you can set up on this request
to turn it into a post request,
so for example the method, that's super important. By default it's get, so you don't need to add this if
you want to send a get request. If you want to send a post request though, you need to set this to post
and now we already send a post request.
Maybe we also want to send different headers though, so we can also pass headers and there you can simply
pass a Javascript object with key-value pairs, representing the headers you want to set. For example maybe
we are about to send JSON data,
so I should set the content type to application/json showing the server that data attached to
this request will be in JSON format,
of course you could set other headers like authorisation headers here too.
Now for this request to work, we also need to specify what we want to accept here I want to accept application/json,
I need to specify this for this specific rest API which will only mirror back the data I sent
to it if I accept to receive that data.
Now with that, there's one other important key we have to set, the body we actually want to send. The body here
is simply in my case, the Javascript object
I want to pass to that back-end which I want to attach to this request.
So here maybe, that could be a message where I say does this work?
And with that, we're setting up that this should be a post request, which kind of data we're sending and
then we accept to get back JSON data and then the data we want to send, we're then handing the
response, extract the data and then output it in another
then call. Let's see if that works by going back to the application and quickly reloading
and you see it's empty,
we don't get back our message.
Now the reason for this is that we attached a Javascript object, we told the back-end though that we send JSON
data,
so we need to transform this into JSON data by calling JSON.stringify like that.
Now with this, if we now save this and we reload the application one more time,
now you see that the data field here is populated
and under JSON, we've got the parsed Javascript object because we set this to be JSON data with the content
type.
So now we get back the mirror data and we see that posting the data worked,
we successfully sent the post request. This is the basics,
these are the basics of the fetch API and how we use it to either send get requests or post requests.
Now as a side note, you don't necessarily need to set the accept header whenever you send a post request,
it depends on the API you are sending the request to.
If it's an API which always returns back some JSON data and doesn't care about whether you're accepting
it or not, you don't need to set this,
typically you will find out which headers you need to send in the API documentation of the API you're
communicating with.
Now there's one other option I want to discuss in the next lecture though.